# RoverProgram
--Overview--
Program for a Mini Mars Rover project.  Programmed in C to be used in an embedded system.  Chip used was the Microchip PIC24.  Program would be complied using the MPLAB X IDE and installed using the MPLAB SNAP programmer.  Many files were generated by the IDE and during compilation.  The files I created were "ActionFunctions.h", "ActionFunctions.h DISABLED", "ConstantsAndEnums.h", "DeviceConfig.h", "DeviceConfig.h DISABLED", "MotorFunctions.h", "MotorFunctions.h DISABLED", and "RoverMain.c".

"RoverMain.c" and "ActionFunctions.h" are designed to be relatively high-level implementations of tasks while "DeviceConfig.h" and "MotorFunctions.h" provide most of the low-level implementations.  The low-level implemenation functions were created first to make the higher-level implemenations easier.


--Versions--
V10 - Heavily tested and proven version of the program.  Tested 94% reliable version (50 out of 53 successful tests).  Prioritized reliability over speed (though was still capable of completing all tasks in approximately 50 seconds).  Not used in competition.

V11 - Experimental version of program that accelerated speed to reduce task completion time to about 45 seconds.  Used in competition.  Insufficient time means exact reliability is not known, but it proved both fast enough and reliable enough to win a rover competition.


--Functionality--
Program is organizing into several files, as follows.

The "RoverMain.c" file contains the main function and numerous test functions.  It also, after triggering initialization of its sensors and hardware, has a brief delay to ensure it does not start readouts before ground sensors have an accurate reading.

The "ActionFunctions.h" file held the instructions for how to actually execute tasks, including sample collection, satellite targeing, canyon navigation, etc.  This, after "RoverMain.c" function, is the most human-readable as the other files are made to act as translation layers to convert human-readable inputs into machine-readable inputs.

The "ConstantsAndEnums.h" file contains, as the name implies, all the constants and enums used in the program.  This includes constants taht are physical limitations (like servomotor PWM period) as well as constants that were measured and tested (like the number of steps to turn 90 degrees).  This allows for most of the program tuning to exist in a single file.  Additionally, nearly all the register names that are used in the rover program as a whole are renamed here so that their purpose is more clear, for example the register _LATB7 is renamed to LASER_ENABLE.

The "DeviceConfig.h" file contained all instructions for enabling sensors readouts, enabling analog to digital conversion, motor initialization, etc.  To make implementation easy, it also contains a single shortcut function that triggers all other functions in the file so that the main function does not have to address them individually.  Excluding motor enabling and disabling functions, functions in this file are only needed once per program execution.

The "MotorFunctions.h" file contains all functions related to drive motor control.  This file is arguably the most important for making the robot easy to program since it functions as the primary translation layer converting human-readable inputs into machine readable inputs.  For example, there is a function that converts a percent speed value into the PWM period and duty cycle necessary to actually control stepper motors.  This file also contains some now disused functions meant for some types of percision-control (like the moveDistInches function) that have not yet been removed. 

The files with DISABLED in their filenames were meant to help with cleaner code, but were eventually disabled and replaced due to complications that were not worth the time to fix.


--Extra Information--
Primarily developed between March and April of 2026.
